{\rtf1\ansi\deff3\adeflang1025
{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fprq2\fcharset0 Times New Roman;}{\f1\froman\fprq2\fcharset2 Symbol;}{\f2\fswiss\fprq2\fcharset0 Arial;}{\f3\froman\fprq2\fcharset0 Liberation Serif{\*\falt Times New Roman};}{\f4\fswiss\fprq2\fcharset0 Liberation Sans{\*\falt Arial};}{\f5\fnil\fprq2\fcharset0 Microsoft YaHei;}{\f6\fnil\fprq2\fcharset0 Arial;}{\f7\fswiss\fprq0\fcharset128 Arial;}}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}
{\stylesheet{\s0\snext0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1033 Normal;}
{\s15\sbasedon0\snext16\sb240\sa120\keepn\dbch\af5\dbch\af6\afs28\loch\f4\fs28 Heading;}
{\s16\sbasedon0\snext16\sl288\slmult1\sb0\sa140 Text Body;}
{\s17\sbasedon16\snext17\sl288\slmult1\sb0\sa140\dbch\af7 List;}
{\s18\sbasedon0\snext18\sb120\sa120\noline\i\dbch\af7\afs24\ai\fs24 Caption;}
{\s19\sbasedon0\snext19\noline\dbch\af7 Index;}
}{\*\generator LibreOffice/5.2.5.1$Windows_X86_64 LibreOffice_project/0312e1a284a7d50ca85a365c316c7abbf20a4d22}{\info{\creatim\yr0\mo0\dy0\hr0\min0}{\revtim\yr2019\mo6\dy23\hr22\min17}{\printim\yr0\mo0\dy0\hr0\min0}}{\*\userprops}\deftab709
\viewscale100
{\*\pgdsctbl
{\pgdsc0\pgdscuse451\pgwsxn12240\pghsxn15840\marglsxn1134\margrsxn1134\margtsxn1134\margbsxn1134\pgdscnxt0 Default Style;}}
\formshade\paperh15840\paperw12240\margl1134\margr1134\margt1134\margb1134\sectd\sbknone\sectunlocked1\pgndec\pgwsxn12240\pghsxn15840\marglsxn1134\margrsxn1134\margtsxn1134\margbsxn1134\ftnbj\ftnstart1\ftnrstcont\ftnnar\aenddoc\aftnrstcont\aftnstart1\aftnnrlc
{\*\ftnsep\chftnsep}\pgndec\pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af8\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\hich\af3\fs24\lang1033{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
axphin [9:35 PM]\line quick js question related to the brick breaker code.  why can't I instantiate the ballX and ballY at canvas.width/2 and canvas.height/2?  it works when set to 75, but not when set to the canvas width and height.  but later, when the ballreset function is called, it does work.\line \line I thought maybe it has to do with the order of things.  so I moved the var canvas, canvasContext; line above the var ballX and ballY lines.  but that didn't work.\line \line chris_deleon [9:48 PM]\line the canvas variable doesn't get set until the window.onload function gets reached, which doesn't happen until all lines of the game's source files have been reached/loaded\line because window.onload is where the execution of functions kicks off, and it sets the reference up to canvas first thing, any code inside a function will have a valid reference, but any code outside of a function the canvas variable won't yet have been initialized when it's reached\line \line chris_deleon [9:58 PM]\line ```<html>\line <canvas id="gameCanvas" width="800" height="600"></canvas>\line <script>\line var canvas; // no value yet\line var someNumber; // no value yet\line \line // var halfWidth = canvas.width; // can't do, canvas isn't defined here yet\line  \line window.onload = function()\{ // starts only after last line of code loaded\line     canvas = document.getElementById('gameCanvas'); // NOW it's set\line     someNumber = canvas.width / 2; // so now we can do this\line \line     setInterval(tickFunction,1000);\line \}\line  \line function tickFunction()\{\line     console.log(someNumber);\line \}\line </script>\line </html>```\line \line Anthony J [10:04 PM]\line So there's a point where a canvas exists, but there's no reference to it in our javascript and a blank variable called "canvas" exists in our script but it does not point to the canvas yet.  Interesting. (edited) \line \line chris_deleon [10:05 PM]\line yep, as a reminder the only relationship between the <canvas> tag and the var canvas isn't that either is called canvas, but that it's fetched by its id attribute in the tag\line Technically no less valid to the machine, but unhelpful for human reader :wink: :\line ```<canvas id="mapleSyrup" width="800" height="600"></canvas>\line <script>\line var ponies;\line var someNumber\line window.onload = function()\{\line     ponies = document.getElementById('mapleSyrup');\line     someNumber = ponies.width / 2;\line \}\line </script>```}
\par }